Possible Passages

1) pp24-	"I'll dig it again..."

"I'll dig it again, Barney," he'd said, his eyes filling with anger, "you see if I won't. We'll have all the carrots and onions and tatties we need. The beggars who done this, I won't let them win." He brushed away the tears with the back of his hand, and they were fierce tears. "You know something, Barney," he went on, "it's funny: all through the last war, in the trenches, I never hated'ed. They were just Fritzis, fighting like we were. But now it's different. They done what they done to Coventry, my place, my city, my people. I hate 'em for what they doneto my allotment I hate 'em too. They got no right."

2) pp128-130
139-142
166-169

It was at that precise moment, as their eyes met in the cinema, that billy felt he had met this man before, not on screen, but face to face. And when Hitler raised his hand and brushed his hair back from his forehead, he knew at once who it was, and where they had met, and remembered everything that had happened between them. Christine clutched his arm, looking away from the screen, then buried her head in Billy's shoulder. Billy realised that everyone in that cinema was feeling as she did. It was fear, the kind that gripped your body and soul and wouldn't leave you. No one whistled any more, no one hooted, no one laughed. It was as if everyone in the cinema was holding their breath, waiting for what was to come, dreading the horror of it, but knowing that there was nothing that could stop it, because this man, this Hitler, was going to make it happen. But Billy knew more. All the while Billy looked up into his eyes, and could not look away. All the while he was wondering if what had come into his mind could possibly be true. The more he looked into those eyes, the more he realised that it was, that there could be no doubt about it. That man, that warmonger, was up there now, able to spew out his hatred only because Billy had spared his life all those years before, after the Battle of Marcoing.